
## 使用elasticsearch为c4/realnewslike构建索引

### 环境
ubuntu 22.04
elasticsearch 8.8.0
openjdk 11.0.19
### 1.安装java环境

### 2.安装elasticsearch
在Ubunutu上
[Install Elasticsearch from archive on Linux or MacOS | Elasticsearch Guide [8.8] | Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/targz.html)
```bash
wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-8.8.0-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
wget https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-8.8.0-linux-x86_64.tar.gz.sha512
shasum -a 512 -c elasticsearch-8.8.0-linux-x86_64.tar.gz.sha512 [](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/targz.html#CO1-1)
tar -xzf elasticsearch-8.8.0-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
cd elasticsearch-8.8.0/ [](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/targz.html#CO1-2)
```

运行elasticsearch
```bash
./bin/elasticsearch
```

此处访问localhost：9200报错：
```
[2023-05-28T14:06:52,139][WARN ][o.e.h.n.Netty4HttpServerTransport] [AORUS-de-Abigail] received plaintext http traffic on an https channel, closing connection Netty4HttpChannel{localAddress=/127.0.0.1:9200, remoteAddress=/127.0.0.1:33334}
```

解决方法：
[Elasticsearch报错： received plaintext http traffic on an https channel, closing connection ...-CSDN博客](https://blog.csdn.net/zhangphil/article/details/124476717)
找到config/目录下面的elasticsearch.yml配置文件，把安全认证开关从原先的true都改成false，实现免密登录访问即可，修改这两处都为false后再次运行elasticsearch，

```
abigail@AORUS-de-Abigail:~/Desktop$ curl localhost:9200
{
  "name" : "AORUS-de-Abigail",
  "cluster_name" : "elasticsearch",
  "cluster_uuid" : "LRSiiSH-TzG2gqtJdzrE5Q",
  "version" : {
    "number" : "8.8.0",
    "build_flavor" : "default",
    "build_type" : "tar",
    "build_hash" : "c01029875a091076ed42cdb3a41c10b1a9a5a20f",
    "build_date" : "2023-05-23T17:16:07.179039820Z",
    "build_snapshot" : false,
    "lucene_version" : "9.6.0",
    "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "7.17.0",
    "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "7.0.0"
  },
  "tagline" : "You Know, for Search"
}
```

构建索引之前，必须安装elasticsearch，注意指定版本，不然会报错`# TypeError: __init__() missing 1 required positional argument: 'scheme'`, 运行`pip install elasticsearch==7.7.1`安装指定版本的elasticsearch

### 3.下载数据集构建索引
先跑起来elastic服务器，再运行下面python命令

```python
from datasets import load_dataset,list_datasets

realnewslike = load_dataset('c4', 'realnewslike',split='train')
print(realnewslike['train'][0])
realnewslike.add_elasticsearch_index("text", host="localhost", port="9200", es_index_name="realnewslike_text")

```

服务器log显示：
```bash
[2023-05-29T12:52:52,679][INFO ][o.e.c.m.MetadataCreateIndexService] [AORUS-de-Abigail] [realnewslike_text] creating index, cause [api], templates [], shards [1]/[1]
```
说明索引构建完成

下载数据集和构建索引的过程都很花时间，最后索引大小约为35G

### 4.验证

构建完成后用curl查询，索引构建成功。

```bash
abigail@AORUS-de-Abigail:~$ curl -X GET "localhost:9200/realnewslike_text/_search?pretty" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d'
{
"query": {
"match": {
"text": "martyrdom"
}
}
}
'
{
  "took" : 5,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "_shards" : {
    "total" : 1,
    "successful" : 1,
    "skipped" : 0,
    "failed" : 0
  },
  "hits" : {
    "total" : {
      "value" : 5851,
      "relation" : "eq"
    },
    "max_score" : 15.384199,
    "hits" : [
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "4679362",
        "_score" : 15.384199,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "\"Nothing is easier than to denounce the evil-doer; nothing is more difficult than to understand him.\"\nAn Islamic martyr (shahid) is a Muslim who died fi sabil Allah (in the cause of Allah). Martyrs are imbued with special status and reverence among Muslims. Islamic elites have (re)constructed martyrdom in response to their political ambitions and prevailing situational factors.\nBroadly speaking, there are three types of Islamic martyrdom: battlefield martyrdom, non-violent (spiritual) martyrdom and contemporary martyrdom operations. Contemporary martyrdom operations are the most contentious form.\nRadical Islamists believe that Islam sanctions the use of martyrdom operations under certain circumstances. While these claims can be rebutted, the question of why these radical messages resonate with some Muslim communities, such as the Palestinians, must be examined.\nThe Qur'an sanctions the use of violence against enemy combatants, and under conditions of oppression and injustice. It is beyond the scope of this piece to examine the Islamic doctrine of war and peace, suffice to say that the conditions under which violence can be used are strictly sanctioned by Islamic jurisprudence.\nMartyrs are revered and rewarded in the physical world and in the afterlife. The veracity of the benefits bestowed upon a martyr of course cannot be proven. Nonetheless, these benefits are promoted by Islamic elites (scholars and activists) through a constructed culture of martyrdom, whereby the martyr gains presence and reverence in the community.\nThe martyr’s deeds are ritualised in performances and processions that recall and re-enact the struggle for the cause of Allah. Islamic martyrdom has been bestowed for diverse acts and, importantly, constructed by Islamic elites to legitimise their advocacy of diverse political and religious \"causes of Allah\".\nIn the Qur'an, the term shahid means to \"witness\" and not \"martyr\". Some early Islamic scholars had likely broadened the meaning of shahid to martyrdom, not because of Islamic jurisprudence or belief, rather the Christian connection of witnessing and martyrdom reflected in antique Christian linguistic usage.\nThe Qur'an places less emphasis on what constitutes a martyr, and more on the rewards for martyrs in Paradise: “Do not say of those slain in Allah’s way that they are dead; they are living, only you do not perceive” (Q. 2:154). Thus, what constitutes a \"martyr\" is constructed and contested by Islamic elites.\nDespite the expansion of the types of martyrdom, only those who fought with the proper intention may qualify for the reward of \"martyr\". Only Muslims who died fi sabil Allah are considered martyrs. Those who fought for physical rewards or with ostentatious bravery did not die fi sabil Allah.\nThe influence and interference of Western nations led to the (re)construction of martyrdom by Islamic elites. They promoted as \"martyrs\" those who died defending the state, rather than those who died spreading and defending the Islamic civilisation.\nIn this way, 19th- and 20th-century anti-colonial struggles were viewed by modern Islamic organisations (e.g. the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt) as defending Islam and Muslims against colonialism.\nSome moderates such as Sir Sayyid Khan have sought to counter the Western orientalist view that Islam was a religion of violence spread by battlefield martyrs. He argued that Islam is the legitimate state religion of Islamic or Muslim states and is not used to promote violence.\nMartyrdom operations re-emerged from the post-colonial struggles of the 20th-century (for example, in the Palestinian Occupied Territories). Radical Islamists criticise the quietism of Islamic moderates, such as Khan, which they believe led to the subjugation of Muslims by a coalition of Western and apostate governments in the Muslim world.\nRadical Islamic ideologues, such as Sayyid Qutb, have sought to return Islam to the \"straight path\" by reinterpreting and revitalising Islamic doctrines. In Qutb’s seminal book Milestones, he argued that the path to freedom must be hewn by the sword (jihad bil saif). Those who supported Qutb’s claims cited the Qur’anic verse, “oppression is worse than killing” (2:217).\nModerate Muslims believe that Islamic doctrine prohibits martyrdom operations on three accounts. Islam clearly prohibits suicide. The Qur'an states \"do not kill yourself, for God is indeed merciful to you\" and \"do not throw yourself into destruction with your own hands\". Second, Islam prohibits the killing of innocent civilians. Finally, Islam affords protection to people of the book—Jews and Christians.\nRadical Islamists believe that these three prohibitions are not applicable to Muslims who live under oppressed conditions (e.g. Palestinians living in the Occupied Territories). They argue that martyrdom is based on the Islamic doctrines of Istishad (martyrdom) meaning self-sacrifice in the name of Allah. The radical Islamist perspective is exemplified by the late Sheikh Yassin, the former spiritual leader of Hamas, and Sheikh al-Qaradawi, a scholar of Islamic jurisprudence, both of whom sanctioned \"martyrdom operations\" as a legitimate form of resistance.\nSheikh al-Qaradawi argued that Israel is a military society, because men and women serve and are conscripted into the military. According to this view, the casualties caused by martyr operatives are not innocent Israeli citizens because they live in a militarised society.\nSome assert that radical Islamists believe Jews and Christians are protected under Islam only when they live under Muslim rule. Moreover, radical Islamists believe that because Jews have usurped Muslim land, such as Palestine before the state of Israel, they have forfeited any protection afforded in the Qur'an.\nThe above arguments by radical Islamists lack legitimacy because martyrdom operations explicitly target and kill innocent civilians. Furthermore, martyr operatives do not die for or in the service of Allah. Rather, they die for their political cause—for example, the liberation of Palestine. Radical Islamists’ claims that they have the right to explicitly target innocent civilians in the service of their cause is erroneous.\nThe martyrdom construct is not created in a vacuum. Radical Islamists’ legitimisation of contemporary martyrdom operations is based on their radical interpretations of the Qur'an and their empathy with the plight of oppressed Muslim communities, such as the Palestinians.\nI would argue that the Qur'an does not sanction the use of martyrdom operations, and it is unethical for radical Islamists to espouse an Islamic justification. Nonetheless, the question must be asked—why do these radical interpretations of the Qur'an resonate with some Muslim communities?\nThe answer to this question is the topic for another essay. It is clear, however, that the conditions experienced by some Muslim communities may offer a starting point. Religious leaders who appeal to a monotheistic God, Allah or Yahweh for legitimacy should understand that all their followers believe in the same higher being, and are members of the same humanity. Thus, religious believers are united by their devotion to this higher being, which is surely a compelling and uniting force towards mutual respect, benevolence and peace.\nTo read the full version of this essay, click here.\nRecent articles by Abraham Rushdi.\nFor me, one of the saddest things is that most of the so called martyrs kill people of their own religion and race."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "3874391",
        "_score" : 14.992176,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "Beginning with the 1979 Shi'i Iranian revolution and the subsequent success of the Sunni mujahideen's resistance to the Soviets in the 1980s, acts of violence committed in the name of Islam have risen sharply. Increasingly, the role of martyrdom has taken a central position in violent campaigns conducted by Islamic groups. The suicide bomber has become the ideal of Islamic martyrdom, simultaneously appalling Western audiences and captivating Islamic ones. What seems to have gone unnoticed, however, is how the concept of Islamic martyrdom has undergone a transformation that blends and synthesizes notions that were once limited to one or the other of the main Muslim sects. In order to better address the challenge of Islamic violence, it is necessary to examine both the Islamic world's attachment to such behavior and to understand better how the role of the martyr has changed with the times.\nA Palestinian woman wears a suicide belt. Islamic law allows women to engage in jihad when the Muslim state comes under attack. In recent years, women have volunteered for membership in a range of terrorist groups including Hamas and Islamic Jihad. In April 2005, the Iranian regime created a unit of female suicide bombers nicknamed the Olive Daughters. An Iranian website announced that these women were following in the footsteps of the \"holy female Palestinian warriors.\"\nMartyrdom in Islamic history has taken on a variety of shapes and relied on numerous contexts for justification and implementation. Over the last century, new strains of martyrdom have moved across the umma (the global Islamic community) from Mandatory Palestine, French Algeria, and revolutionary Iran to everywhere between Morocco and Indonesia. Evolutions in martyrdom's place within Islamic thought expose shifts within Muslims' own sense of self as well as changes in culture.\nIn Arabic—Islam's sacred language—several words refer to variations on the concept of the martyr. Shahada, often translated as \"martyrdom,\" literally stands for the act of \"witnessing,\" and depending on context, it can mean the \"confession of one's submission to God\" or \"death for God's sake.\" Istishhad literally refers to the act of martyrdom. Shahada then refers to incidental death during jihad (i.e., a soldier falling in battle) whereas istishhad indicates deliberate death during jihad. The former connotes a \"willingness to die,\" the latter an explicit \"eagerness to die.\"\nToday, shahid best describes one who dies during jihad rather than one who simply dies for Islam. In popular usage, the shahid refers primarily to the perpetrators of suicide attacks but has expanded to include those deemed martyrs by Muslim society at large, i.e., participants in jihad who have died one way or another. Palestinian society views both the shahid and the istishhadi as martyrs who deserve the rewards of paradise. Indeed, Palestinians often speak about both the istishhadi (one who puts himself forward knowingly to die during jihad) and the shahid (one who incidentally attains martyrdom during jihad) as shuhada' (martyrs).\nThese terms are embedded within a surrounding \"culture of martyrdom,\" a phrase often applied to some contemporary Muslim societies, whether a relatively small one like that of the Palestinian Arabs or a larger, transnational one, like Al-Qaeda and its so-called affiliates, that promote self-sacrificial terrorism, including suicide bombings and other \"martyrdom operations.\" The culture of martyrdom also refers to those elements such as music videos, popular poems, textbooks, rallies, memorabilia, etc., that support ideas of jihad, shahada, and istishhad, or commemorate a past shahid. Less tangible elements such as popular acceptance and praise of shahids as well as other forms of popular consent, (e.g., limited or no condemnation by authority figures) are aspects of the culture. Such a culture has roots deep in Islam's historical narrative.\nOne major trajectory for martyrdom's importance within the Muslim tradition derives from the Shi'i narrative that developed following the death of Muhammad's grandson Hussein in 680 CE. Hussein and his followers did not choose martyrdom at the Battle of Karbala in the manner of most other Islamic martyrs in successive generations. Nevertheless, Shi'i tradition embellishes his death with prophetic foreknowledge of the outcome. It also embodies the model of a woefully small force of true believers arrayed against an overwhelming army of \"evil-doers.\" As a result of his death, the role of martyrdom would forever serve as a basis for the distinction of Shi'ism from Sunni orthodoxy. Hussein's death has since demonstrated the extent to which martyrdom proves one's commitment to an Islamic cause. This gives it a capability like none other in political Islam: the power to affect ideological change from within.\nThe martyrdom of [Hussein] provided an opportunity to denounce the usurpers so as to reestablish the true religion of [Muhammad]. In this case, the relationship between martyrdom and jihad is ambiguous, as self-sacrifice was not made when victory was in sight. On the contrary, it resulted in temporary defeat.\nThe Ismaili Assassins, a Shi'i offshoot of the eleventh and twelfth centuries, represent a further step in that trajectory as an example of Muslims who identify themselves so differently from the ruling sect that violence and death became the most desirable option for pursuing their collective goals. In pursuit of political change, the Assassins combined Shi'i martyrdom with the Islamic concept of taqiyya or deception, taking the conventions of resistance in new directions. Responding to their oppression at the hands of Sunni caliphs, the Assassins refocused their allegiance on their sect rather than their more encompassing Islamic faith. Most significantly though, by later targeting Crusader officials, the Assassins introduced Islam's brand of martyrdom to the West as an inter-civilizational tool of warfare and political messaging.\nA second, significant trajectory is that of the dominant, Sunni perspective on jihad and the Sunni understanding of martyrdom. While always present, Sunni martyrdom within the framework of jihad remained mostly stagnant for hundreds of years as Sunnis largely enjoyed the power of the majority. This began to change in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries with Western dominance over territory formally under Islamic control (Dar al-Islam) and most significantly with the influx of mainly European Jews into Palestine. Their arrival was often perceived as a challenge to Muslim hegemony by local Sunni leaders.\nAlthough suicide terrorism has become a major feature of modern jihad, it has its roots in earlier concepts of the shahid who goes into battle determined to kill as many of the enemy as possible in the knowledge that he will die. The martyr's death is constantly presented as the perfect way for a Muslim to die, and this conviction has, in the modern period, given rise to the phenomenon of a self-detonating shahid, especially among Palestinian fighters.\nWith the Zionist settlement of Ottoman-ruled southern Syria, later British-controlled Mandatory Palestine, and the eventual establishment of the state of Israel in 1948, the political geography of the Islamic world was dramatically reformatted, giving rise in turn to new notions of how to wage a \"defensive jihad.\" A key catalyst to nascent Arab nationalism proved to be the \"us-versus-them\" scenarios that played out in confrontations between Jewish immigrants and the local Arab population. In direct response to the growth of the yishuv (the pre-state Jewish community and its leadership), the Arab population—also made up of many newcomers from various places in the Arab world—began constructing its own national identity. But the leaders of this Arab community were simultaneously religious leaders (e.g., the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem Hajj Amin al-Husseini, Sheikh 'Izz al-Din al-Qassam), and the conflict over Mandatory Palestine was soon framed in terms of Muslims versus Jews. At the center of this identity stood its hero—the shahid. Muslims who died opposing the Zionists were \"martyred\" and ascended to national hero status within the population.\nIn the decades after Israel's establishment, Palestinian Arabs placed ethnic or national identity ahead of their Islamic identity because Muslim leaders had failed them and Arabism seemed to offer a more promising future. Yasser Arafat's Fatah guerrilla group began employing the traditional Sunni notion of a feda'i (self-sacrificer) to define their fearless revolutionaries, who opposed the imperial powers through guerrilla warfare and terrorism, replacing the religious shahid in the national consciousness. A feda'i or mujahid (one who wages jihad) displays a willingness to sacrifice his life for Islam but usually seeks to fight for as long as possible and does not court death as an end-goal.\nThe use of feda'i served another purpose as well. Fatah and others within the umbrella of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) shaped their political message with the vernacular of the international environment in mind. The Cold War, the rise of Arabism, and the strategic and ideological compatibility of Palestinian revolutionaries with the Soviets influenced the PLO's manner of framing its struggle. While the PLO took on an identity that allowed it smoother access within the international system, it did so without compromising its positions regarding martyrdom. The PLO never became any less Islamic or Arab internally. The Sunni tradition of martyrdom may have temporarily moved to the background, but it still remained an animating force, mobilizing the PLO's resistance to Zionism by having its fighters engage in risky, nearly suicidal operations.\nThroughout the 1950s and 1960s, Palestinian groups sat at the forefront of modern terrorism, and their fedayeen martyrs remained central to their strategy of political extortion. The term jihad, however, seemed to disappear from the framework. This was not a particularly Palestinian phenomenon. Historian David Cook notes that \"the muted use of jihad held throughout the Muslim world until the rise of political Islam after the Six-Day War with Israel in 1967.\"\nHowever, in the 1970s, the Muslim world woke up to a new era. Secularist alternatives to tradition, such as pan-Arabism, had either been found wanting or were associated, like Baathism, with repressive regimes. Israel had roundly defeated Arab states in war, particularly in 1967 and in 1973. Most significantly, a revolution in Iran in 1979 resulted in the rise of a religiously-oriented regime that showed itself able to confront the \"Great Satan,\" the United States. This did not go unnoticed in the larger, Sunni world: By the mid-1980s, a coalition of Sunni warriors from several countries was fighting and eventually defeating Soviet forces in Afghanistan.\nMeanwhile, Khomeini's use of shahada within the Iranian revolution and the Iran-Iraq war demonstrated the ability of martyrdom to advance an Islamic cause. Without the thousands of volunteers who blew themselves up clearing Iraqi minefields, one can never know with certainty if Iran could have staved off Iraq's mechanized encroachments. Using the power of identity politics, Khomeini cast the shah, and subsequently Saddam Hussein, in the role of Yazid, the slayer of Hussein at Karbala and thus the explicit enemy of all Shi'a. The needs of revolution and war led Khomeini to call for acts of martyrdom. Inadvertently perhaps, the exigencies that led Khomeini and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps to mobilize waves of self-sacrificers served to expand the parameters of the culture of martyrdom.\nSoon thereafter, Iran's agent in Lebanon, Hezbollah, advanced notions of Shi'i martyrdom in its own right, perhaps more significantly than revolutionary Iran did. Hezbollah's superimposition of the shahid onto the figure of a suicide-bomber completely altered the contemporary direction in the uses of Islamic martyrdom. The act of an individual directly killing him or herself while killing others, whether U.S. troops in Beirut or Israeli troops in southern Lebanon, reinvigorated Islamic martyrdom. Moreover, this evolution was to have an immeasurable effect on political Islam within both Shi'i and Sunni spheres. The structure of the conflict pitted Hezbollah against much more advanced forces, highlighting the advantages of using the shahid to attack soft targets. Culture and identity also played a part in Hezbollah's successful importation of Iranian ideas and tactics: the Shi'a were the traditional low men on the totem pole of Lebanon's confessional politics and met Khomeini's concept of martyrdom with unexpected levels of enthusiasm.\nboth shahid and fida'i are motivated by a profound and numbing religious fanaticism, which pushes them to commit acts of self-sacrifice, which we usually refer to as \"suicide attacks\"... However, while the shahid is a martyr in the sense that he is serving a cause, the fida'i connotes more of a devotion to a leader.\nThus the focus of Islamic martyrdom shifted from the specific to the universal, moving away from the established organization member to any individual who aspired ad hoc to answer the call of jihad.\nIn late 1992, as a response to the seemingly endless first intifada, Yitzhak Rabin's Israeli government made the mistake of deporting some of the uprising's leaders and other Islamic Palestinian activists, including both Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ) members, to southern Lebanon. Under the auspices of Hezbollah and the Iranian Revolutionary Guards, these Hamas and PIJ members learned the functional elements of suicide attacks and matured their understanding of martyrdom operations. Compounding its mistakes, the Rabin government allowed many of the 418 deportees to return to the disputed territories by the end of 1993. By no coincidence, Hamas and PIJ attacked Israel with suicide bombers a combined eight times during 1993 alone.\nThe transmission of the Shi'i shahid/suicide bomber to the Sunni world marks the full convergence of the two historical trajectories. The mid-1990s ushered in a period when Hamas and PIJ transitioned potential martyrs from rock throwers and gunmen to suicide bombers as well as shifted Palestinians' support from shahada (incidental death) to istishhad (deliberate death). Not to be outdone, Arafat's nominally secular Fatah adopted the istishhad approach. By the time of the Aqsa intifada in 2000, Palestinian organizations had injected esoteric Shi'i concepts into the Sunni world of martyrdom, including pre-attack rituals initially developed in Iran and Lebanon.\nThe Sunni adoption of a Shi'i form of martyrdom has led to a hybrid version that takes the most virulent components of each. Superimposing the jihadi martyrdom of Sunni tradition onto the self-annihilating Shi'i version has contributed to the brutality and audaciousness of acts of martyrdom committed by Palestinians and the international jihadi movement. Interestingly, in the late 1980s, Hezbollah came to recognize the negative social potential of mass istishhad, and its spiritual advisor, Mohammed Hussein Fadlallah, accordingly issued a fatwa (Islamic religious ruling) authorizing its practice \"only on special occasions\" in order to prevent \"exaggerated use [by] overzealous youth.\"\nWith the growing importance of the Palestinian cause to the Sunni world, at least on a popular level, Palestinian promotion of Hezbollah's virulent shahid/suicide-bomber modus operandi received support and inspired others. The structure of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, framed as one between Jews and Muslims, helped foster international support for the new type of martyr. In turn, widespread support for this type of attack, against civilians and on a mass scale, led to the construction of a new Sunni culture of martyrdom across the global Islamic community.\nInevitably, as respected Sunni leaders such as Sheikh Yusuf al-Qaradawi and entire Arab societies sanctioned Palestinian suicide terrorism against Israeli civilians, it opened the door of legitimacy for other Sunnis to engage in similar acts. Though neither the Afghan mujahideen nor their Arab partners used any form of suicide attack during the jihad against the Soviets, Palestinians did inspire Al-Qaeda and others within the international jihadi movement to adopt not only the suicide-terror tactic but also the complementary istishhad strategy.\nAl-Qaeda and others have mobilized Sunni shuhada'-suicide bombers for their own cause. Framed on a global level, Al-Qaeda has unleashed its weapon against all who do not fit its own identity grouping, including fellow Muslims and particularly the Shi'a. In Iraq, a role reversal of titanic portions has occurred. While Palestinian martyrdom operations, the attacks of 9/11, and subsequent Al-Qaeda-inspired violence targeted Western foes, the Shi'a represented the target of choice in Iraq. In Iraq, Sunni organizations have effectively advanced Shi'i concepts of martyrdom and now use them predominantly against Shi'i targets.\nAl-Qaeda's capability to export the Palestinian form of martyrdom on a worldwide level is sure to leave a greater path of destruction and despair than it already has. At some point, martyrdom seems to have become the primary goal within the Palestinian arena, reducing to secondary importance the stated objectives that initially encouraged the act. As with the international jihadi movement, political objectives may be maintained at the organizational level, but on the operational level, fixating potential martyrs on the act itself remains the fundamental goal.\nThe vogue for martyrdom can also be analysed in terms of fashion: The wish to imitate the other in death was a constant feature of young people in the [Iranian] revolutionary movement because it allowed them to take on a collective identity, to look different to others, and to establish a new hierarchy of the heart rather than a social hierarchy.\nThe international jihadi movement has to a degree restructured the relationship between the Islamic community and its spiritual and temporal leaders, incorporating Muslims into a bottom-up political movement of martyrdom operations, in which they can decide to actively participate at any time. Perhaps not since the death of Hussein have notions of martyrdom caused as drastic an evolution in political Islam as has the suicide-bomber. Martyrdom has become a central concept within contemporary political Muslim discourse and has assumed the role of the dominant cause rather than the consequential effect in its relationship with political Islam. Its most notable adherents are now the members of the international jihadi movement, increasingly bolstering their claim that they are the true representatives of the global Islamic community. Al-Qaeda's sustained targeting of the Shi'a could lead to the use of Islamic martyrdom as an internal Islamic tool used to eliminate inter-sectarian rivals in addition to a weapon for use against non-Muslims.\nConcepts of martyrdom have played important roles throughout Islamic history, and today's \"martyrdom operations\" display the continuing importance of the phenomenon as an expression of Islamic grievance and as a form of religiously-motivated armed combat. For many political Islamic groups today, the martyr stands at the pinnacle of resolving intergroup conflict. Heroes represent a group's ideal member, and the idea of ordinary individuals achieving extraordinary feats captures the attention and inspires many to answer the call of their group—especially in the face of conflict with a perceived encroaching enemy, whether a U.S. soldier or a Shi'i politician. Now, the acts of suicide-homicide martyrs epitomize heroism for many jihadi organizations. Accordingly, one should expect support for and participation in violent acts of martyrdom to continue to increase in the Sunni world over the foreseeable future.\nBenjamin T. Acosta is currently working on a Ph.D. in political science and cultural studies at Claremont Graduate University.\n Jon Elster, \"Motivations and Beliefs in Suicide Missions,\" in Diego Gambetta, ed., Making Sense of Suicide Missions (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006), pp. 237-8.\n Yasser Mahmoud Ali Abu Bakar, cited in \"Suicide Bombing Terrorism during the Current Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: September 2000-December 2005,\" Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center, Ramat HaSharon, Jan. 1, 2006, pp. 7-8.\n Benjamin T. Acosta, \"Palestinian Precedents: The Origins of Al-Qaeda's Use of Suicide Terrorism and Istishhad,\" in Joseph M. Skelly, ed., Political Islam from Muhammad to Ahmadinejad: Defenders, Detractors, and Definitions (Santa Barbara: Praeger Security International, 2009), pp. 198-9.\n Farhad Khosrokhavar, Suicide Bombers: Allah's New Martyrs, David Macey, trans. (Ann Arbor: Pluto Press, 2005), p. 21.\n Denis MacEoin, \"Dimensions of Jihad: Suicide Bombing as Worship,\" Middle East Quarterly, Fall 2009, pp. 15-24.\n Benny Morris, Righteous Victims: A History of the Zionist-Arab Conflict, 1881-2001 (New York: First Vintage Books, 2001), pp. 113-4; idem, The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem Revisited (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2004), p. 10.\n Benny Morris, 1948: The First Arab-Israeli War (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2008), pp. 34, 67, 209, 395; idem, One State, Two States: Resolving the Israel/Palestine Conflict (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2009), pp. 52-4, 103.\n Bruce Hoffman, Inside Terrorism (New York: Columbia University Press, 2006), pp. 64, 71-9.\n David Cook, Martyrdom in Islam (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2007), p. 136.\n Raphael Israeli, Islamikaze: Manifestations of Islamic Martyrology (London: Frank Cass, 2003), p. 75.\n Ami Pedahzur and Arie Perliger, \"The Changing Nature of Suicide Attacks: A Social Network Perspective,\" Social Forces, June 2006, pp. 1987-2008.\n Scott Atran, \"Genesis of Suicide Terrorism,\" Science, Mar. 7, 2003.\n Hoffman, Inside Terrorism, p. 148.\n Jessica Stern, Terror in the Name of God: Why Religious Militants Kill (New York: Harper Collins, 2003), p. 47.\n Mohammed M. Hafez, Manufacturing Human Bombs: The Making of Palestinian Suicide Bombers (Washington, D.C.: U.S. Institute for Peace Press, 2006), p. 41-2.\n Rafael Israeli, \"A Manual of Islamic Fundamentalist Terrorism,\" Terrorism and Political Violence, Jan. 24, 2002, p. 30.\n Acosta, \"Palestinian Precedents,\" pp. 193-204.\n Mohammed M. Hafez, Suicide Bombers in Iraq: The Strategy and Ideology of Martyrdom (Washington, D.C.: U.S. Institute for Peace Press, 2007), pp. 5, 75-8.\n David Brooks, \"The Culture of Martyrdom: How Suicide Bombing Became Not Just a Means but an End,\" The Atlantic Monthly, June 2002.\n Khosrokhavar, Suicide Bombers, p. 101.\nRelated Topics: Radical Islam, Suicide terrorism | Summer 2010 MEQ receive the latest by email: subscribe to the free mef mailing list This text may be reposted or forwarded so long as it is presented as an integral whole with complete and accurate information provided about its author, date, place of publication, and original URL."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "11173031",
        "_score" : 14.419376,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "Free distribution of liquor and intoxicants by the contesting candidates is bound to vitiate the ambience and sobriety of the solemn observance of the martyrdom of the Char Sahibzadas,” Former Deputy Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Bir Devinder Singh, said.\nFORMER DEPUTY Speaker of Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Bir Devinder Singh, has demanded that the Punjab government should not hold panchayat elections in the state in the last week of December this year in view of the solemn observation of the martyrdom of the four Sahibzadas (Four Sons) of Guru Gobind Singh during this period.\nIn a statement issued Thursday, Bir Devinder Singh said millions of Sikh devotees visit Fatehgarh Sahib (Sirhind) and Chamkaur Sahib in Ropar to pay obeisance to the martyrs. “This week is observed by the Sikh community with deep deference as ‘Shaheedi Hafta’ (martyrdom week) in a highly temperate manner, which require an unpolluted atmosphere. If Panchayat elections are conducted in this particular week, it will contaminate the entire atmosphere.\nFree distribution of liquor and intoxicants by the contesting candidates is bound to vitiate the ambience and sobriety of the solemn observance of the martyrdom of the Char Sahibzadas,” he said.\nHe added that rural Punjab would be in the grip of extreme tension because of pressures applied by diverse influences having allegiance to political parties."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "8413200",
        "_score" : 14.419376,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "Though similar to martyrdom, this definition fits those servants of God who have in some way given up their life prematurely for charity, though the circumstances may fall outside the strict definition of martyrdom, which requires the presence of a persecutor.\n“It is certain that the heroic offering of life, suggested and supported by charity, expresses a true, full and exemplary imitation of Christ, and therefore deserves the admiration that the community of the faithful usually reserves to those who have voluntarily accepted the martyrdom of blood or have exercised in a heroic degree the Christian virtues,” the Pope continued.\nThere are four criteria this case must meet in order to be ‘valid and efficacious’ for the beatification of a servant of God.\nThe first is that it is a free and voluntary offer of life and heroic acceptance’—for the sake of charity—of a certain and non-lengthy death.\nThere also must have been the exercise, at least of an ordinary level, of the Christian virtues before the offering of life and up until the moment of death, as well as the existence of signs of and a reputation of holiness, at least after death.\nAnd finally, unlike with martyrdom, the usual requirement of a confirmed miracle springing from the intercession of the servant of God for beatification, after his or her death, must be in place."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "868282",
        "_score" : 14.395704,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "MANILA, Philippines — President Rodrigo Duterte will commemorate the 122nd anniversary of Dr. Jose Rizal’s martyrdom in Davao City’s Rizal Park.\nIn an advisory released by Malacañang, the President is set to lead the ceremony at 4 p.m. on Sunday in his hometown Davao City.\nThis will be the first time the President will commemorate Rizal’s martyrdom outside Manila’s historic Luneta, where the country’s national hero was executed in 1896.\nIn his first two years as Chief Executive, the President led the flag-raising and wreath-laying ceremony at the Luneta.\n“The presence of the President in any place of celebration adds color to the event. It is the memory of Jose Rizal’s martyrdom that is immortalized by its commemoration and not where a monument of his is built,” Panelo told INQUIRER.net in a text message."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "3034071",
        "_score" : 14.224033,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "This interview with the Saudi ambassador to Great Britain, Ghazi Al-Qusaibi, is pretty chilling. This is the guy who wrote a poem praising the 17 year old girl who committed mass murder in Israel. About the poem, he says, “I knew that the poem would spark debate, but sometimes a man must take a stand.” Yeah, you just can’t look at yourself in the mirror if you haven’t come out for murder. He looks forward to a happy future in the Middle East: “When the culture of martyrdom spreads among the Palestinians and the Arabs, the myth of Israel will come to an end.” My favorite, though, is when he is asked about his own enthusiasm for martyrdom: “I do not fear death–on the contrary, I long to die as a martyr, although I am at an age that does not allow me to carry out a martyrdom operation. My weight does not permit this. But I still hope to die as a martyr…” Has anyone seen a picture of this guy? Is he saying he’s too fat to be a homicide bomber? A teenage girl can do it but his “weight does not permit” it? These are hard people to embarrass. Somehow I suspect that the Ambassador’s longing for martyrdom will go unsatisfied. The really amazing thing about this is not that Saudi Arabia has some citizens that are this fanatical and, frankly, nutty, but that they apparently consider Al-Qusaibi to be one of their most presentable specimens."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "10062244",
        "_score" : 14.085091,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "Pope Francis says the Mass of Palm Sunday at St. Peter's Square, April 13, 2014. Credit: Lauren Cater/CNA.\nVatican City, May 9, 2014 / 12:03 am ().- Martyrdom is a call to Church unity, Pope Francis observed to the head of the Armenian Apostolic Church, signalling his preference for a means of ecumenism favored by his representative for Christian unity.\n“The sufferings endured by Christians in these last decades have made a unique and invaluable contribution to the unity of Christ’s disciples,” Pope Francis said May 8 at an audience with Karekin II, Patriarch of the Armenian Apostolic Church.\nThe Armenian Apostolic Church is an Oriental Orthodox Church; these Churches reject the 451 Council of Chalcedon, and have been considered monophysites by Catholics and the Eastern Orthodox.\nPope Francis began their meeting by praising Christ because “in recent years relations between the Armenian Apostolic Church and the Church of Rome have been strengthened,” noting Karekin’s meetings with St. John Paul II and Benedict XVI, and his presence at his own inauguration as Bishop of Rome.\nIn 1915, the Ottoman Empire began a genocide against the Armenian people, in which some 1 million were killed.\nThis ecumenism of suffering and of martyrdom is seemingly the way Pope Francis wishes to tread the path of ecumenical dialogue.\nHe had already discussed it in his December interview with Italian daily La Stampa.\nIn contrast, Cardinal Kasper – whom St. John Paul II appointed head of the Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity in 2001 – chose “spiritual ecumenism” as the “watchword” for ecumenical dialogue, instead of martyrdom.\nAt a reflection for the Week of Christian Unity in 2008, he discussed spiritual ecumenism as a challenge “to become ever more aware of the scandal of division,” and focused more on the eschatological dimension of ecumenism and an “invisible monastery” rather than the achievement of Church unity in the here and now.\nDespite all this, Cardinal Kasper’s “spiritual ecumenism” did not exclude the ecumenism of martyrdom.\nHowever, when he replaced Kasper in 2013, Cardinal Koch returned the discussion’s emphasis to martyrdom.\nHe had already called for a new ecumenism of martyrs in March 2011 at an annual ecumenical and interreligious summit sponsored by the Community of Sant'Egidio in Munich.\n\"Since today all churches and Christian ecclesiastical communities have their martyrs, we are dealing with a true ecumenism of martyrs,” he said."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "8645695",
        "_score" : 14.033912,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "Pakistan high commission has rejected the visa of 150 Sikh pilgrims visiting Pakistan to commemorate the martyrdom day of 5th Sikh Guru Arjan Dev.\nThe visa was rejected after differences over the date of observing the martyrdom day, with SGPC officials wanting the visa for Sikh pilgrims for today (May 22), while Pakistan said it would grant visa for June 16 when Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee observes the anniversary.\n\"We wanted the visa for Sikh pilgrims to visit Pakistan on May 22 when SGPC is observing the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev, while Pakistan government said they are observing the day on June 16 and could grant visa only for that day.\n\"We would celebrate the day as per our Sikh traditions and not as per Pakistan. This is interference in the internal affairs of Sikhs,\" SGPC president Avtar Singh Makkar told PTI.\nWhen contacted, Pakistan High Commission sources said the mission has not denied the visas but the dates given to them by the PSGP is between June 8 to 17 and they can only issue visa for that period.\nSGPC President secretary Roop Singh said they had applied for visa to 150 Sikh pilgrims seeking to visit gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore, associated with the fifth Sikh Guru.\n\"But Pakistan authorities denied visas to the Sikh pilgrims,\" he said, adding that they were to visit other gurdwaras in Pakistan like Nankana Sahib and Panja Sahib also.\nThe SGPC chief said that last year also no Sikh pilgrim could visit Pakistan to pay homage at Gurdwaras there due to differences over dates with Pakistan authorities.\nIn Punjab, the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev is observed today and has been declared as a holiday."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "7335442",
        "_score" : 13.966851,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "Delhi: The Prime Minister Narendra Modi has paid tributes to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev on the day of their martyrdom.\n“The martyrdom of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev was a watershed moment in our history. Every Indian is proud that these three great men belong to our land. At the peak of their youth they sacrificed their lives so that others can live a life of freedom and dignity”, the Prime Minister said."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index" : "realnewslike_text",
        "_id" : "1418913",
        "_score" : 13.949436,
        "_source" : {
          "text" : "QUETTA: The government of Balochistan is yet to fulfil its promises of compensation and privileges to the family of martyred DIG Hamid Shakeel.\nDIG Hamid Shakil was a reputable officer of Balochistan Police, who embraced martyrdom in the line of duty when a suicide bomber targeted his convoy on Airport road in November last year.\nOn his martyrdom, the representatives of Balochistan government, including the Chief Minister and interior minister, vowed to make all necessary arrangements for the provision of privileges and facilities to the family members of the deceased.\nHowever, according to the family, the provincial government has not followed through on any promise as of yet.\nThey further lamented that if this is the state of paying service to the family of a martyred officer, then the state of rewards given to the families of ordinary personnel must be even more embarrassing.\nThe family members of the martyred police official further said that the provincial government should honour the sacrifice given by officers who have stood valiantly against terrorism and embraced martyrdom for their motherland.\nDIG Hamid Shakeel’s family appealed to the president of Pakistan to ensure that all promises made by the provincial government are kept."
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
abigail@AORUS-de-Abigail:~$ 
```